Hello and welcome back to the course and blog chain.
And today we're going to have an excursion into the world of mining pools.
Let's get started.
All right so here's our network of miners who which we've seen before we know how this works.
They all turn away.
They compete at that cryptographic puzzle and it's more or less fair it's a fair competition.
They can really get a reward at some point.
However as we saw from the previous tutorial there are these huge industrial size mines with tons and
tons of rigs who also join the network.
So let's imagine that these two here are actually like were replaced by industrial ones.
And so in this case how is it that somebody can compete when I have my tiny laptop or whatever it is
like a mining unit that I purchased.
And I'm here all by myself.
And then there is this industrial mine with tons of employees with huge rigs and so on.
It's just unfair.
Like my chances of solving the Rafic puzzle before them is like 1 million to one trillion.
There's no way I will ever ever ever find the golden Non's before them.
And so how does that happen.
Like what.
What's the point.
At the end of the day if there's these players.
And yet despite this we've all probably heard of a friend of a friend who has a neighbor who has purchased
a mining rig and he's writing a he or she is running it at home and they are you know very excited about
it and they still doing it.
So are their efforts completely in vain.
Well no because after this start to happen or somewhere maybe before around the same time basically
what was invented was mining pools.
And now miners actually don't just mind for themselves they enter mining pools such as like here and
here.
And what happens is these miners they come by in their hashing power.
They combine their processing power into this mining pool.
So now they all of a sudden there's they have more power together.
It's very similar to what triple and what the mining pool provides is a service the money will provide
a service where the mining pool distributes the work among the miners in such a way that they're not
doing double work.
And this is a very important concept to remember because there wouldn't be much point in a mining pool
if they would all be solving like attempting the exact same block configuration of that exact same nonces
if they would be doing double work then the what's the point of them combining their hash rates and
power.
So a very important service that a mining pool provides is it distributes the cryptographic puzzle among
the miners and how can that be done.
Well a very simplistic view of that is we remember that there's the onset with attempting to find the
golden lawns by just brute forcing through the on through different roof and valleys of the.
So the money ball can just say OK so I'm going to give you like we're starting in your blog you're going
to look at and they can unknowns from zero to 1 billion.
You're looking from one billion to two billion.
You're looking for values of the notes from 2 billion to $3 and you are going from 3 billion to four
billion and so the non-SS values have been distributed among them.
So they have enough Non's to go through and that's it and that's what they're doing and then then what
happens is as soon as one of them finds the golden lawn's this mining pool wins the reward and the fees
for the for that block and then how is it then split among them.
Well it's split proportionately to the hashing power that they introduced into the mind people.
So very similar to what Schickel like in a lottery pool if you buy if you buy it or if you put $10 in
and this person puts $100 in and you want triple wins then you're going to get these guys they are going
to get 10 times more than you will get.
So if you get $5 they'll get $50 Orio for you figure $500 will get $5000 because it's proportionate
to the mileage you contributed.
Same thing here just the contribution is measured in hash rate and how much can be additional power
you providing to the pool.
And so yeah.
So that's it's that's how that's all there is for mining coal it provides a service to distribute the
additional power and works exactly lecture.
And of course it takes sort of a certain fee for what they're doing so why the pools are usually like
a web site or an organization.
They all have Web sites where you can just go and download the software and install it.
And also in fact mining pools do not discriminate.
Anybody can join in my pool including these big industrial sized rigs which they do.
And therefore now it's more fair.
So you have these large money pools you can switch around between them.
We don't like this when you can go to this one like that and go out to that other one.
And then you can will see their high rates just now you can see exactly what power they have and then
which no matter who wins they split.
And you know the more power the pool the more power a pool has the more players it has so the last portion
of the fee the bless portion of the reward you will get.
So it's kind of like a tradeoff.
So it's all fair.
So there we go.
That's what a money pool does provides a service first and foremost.
But there's another thing that money pool is beneficial for.
And that thing is they completely remove the headache from individual miners.
And to illustrate the point I wanted to show you something you can buy on Ebay.
Here is so.
Cryptocurrency GP you mining rig for a theory of Zad cash Bitcoin extras and so on.
And yeah so what miners do is they just you can just go and buy one of these.
You install it in your house you doll.
You choose a money pool you go to the Web site you download the software and then that's it you install
the software by installing the software what you're doing is you're pointing this mining rig which belongs
to you.
You're pointing its harsh power higher rates to the mining pool you choose or you can choose out of
three mining pools and or whatever number of money pools and because he has told you choose one you
install the software and that redirects all of this computational power to that money pool and that's
it you don't have to do anything you don't have to know how Bitcoins work you don't have to know what
a blog chain is you don't have to know what unknown's is.
In fact my my guess would be that a lot of the miners that actually use these rigs they don't even know
what they're guessing they don't know that they're actually solving the cryptographic puzzle by guessing
the loans because they need to find find their Chateau-Renaud 56 hash which is irreversible you know.
And has that all those properties that we talked about.
So yeah and so it takes away all of that headache from the miners.
And I guess in a way that is viewed in a way that's bad.
But it is what it is.
And so before we move on from this slide I wanted to point out something here a little preview of what's
to come a little snippet of the future.
So you'll notice here it says GP mining and ethereal.
So be careful these GP mining rigs which you can get on e-bay.
They no longer work for bitcoin.
They only work for other big currencies such as or verticals such as a theory and Zed cash here.
Not sure says it can go less sure about that but this one for sure will not work for Bitcoin.
The reason for that is because in bitcoins now we have A-6 which were introduced in 2014 and in Egypt
use are completely outdated now it's like that and it's like going to war with a stick with a wooden
sword versus somebody who comes in with a machine gun and we'll talk about A-6 more in the future in
a coming storm on this section for sure will definitely cover up.
But I just wanted to point out that this is not a bitcoin mining rig.
This is actually a theory in mining.
OK.
And now we're going to move on to some examples.
All right.
So here we have Blockley not call a lovely website where we go a lot of the time.
And then if we go to chards here let's have a look at these mining pools right here.
Mining information.
So if you go to high Schrade distribution you will see the hasher of how the hash rates or the power
to solve the cryptographic puzzle is split between the pools.
So here you've got the biggest pools listed.
So BTC adcom is currently the biggest one then.
And Paul VI a b c b c top slush pool and some unknown pool I guess or maybe this is people are just
miners who are not in pools or you know like the other the remainder of the pools I guess then you've
got some more.
So you can see that the joint B.C dot com they have twenty six point eight of the total hash rate.
And this is in the past I think this is in the past 24 hours they have a total of 26 percent of the
total hash rate of the network.
And so they have basically a twenty six point eight percent chance of creating the new block and Poole
has a fourteen point seven by BDC eleven point two.
So question is why would you choose to join any other poor example.
BTC well same answer as before.
There is more players this shows that like you have a fix your you have a certain Asheri you bring it
here you will get.
You always get a portion of the reward proportionate to your high rate compared to everybody else because
theres more and more Hatchard here so youll get to have a high chance of winning but will get a small
very small reward.
They have a small chance of winning but youll get a slightly higher rate and so on.
So its a tradeoff and you have to look at what fees they charge what else you know like what other conditions
they have about being Parvis for and also you can if you go just the data and you look at the blogs
you can see who mind their most recent blog site.
So if you can see that here.
It's easy to see that column is actually doing quite a lot.
You don't see Paul here at all.
They only come up here but that's you know it's a game of chance in the long run.
According to the law of large numbers if you take a lot of days a lot of blocks then those those percentages
will show themselves more accurate.
OK.
So those are the rules.
Here's a couple examples so this is the Web site for BTC dot com by the way I'm not advocating any of
them.
I have not used any of them so it's totally up to like you know the person who decides.
And again we have to always figure out if bitcoin mining is for you and it's just interesting to look
at.
That's why the only reason this is not financial advice.
The only reason we look at them is because this is the really interesting new standards for mining services
really sounds like like you know a coal mine or a gold mine or something like they have mining services
for miners.
OK.
So they have some information here you can sign up and stuff like that.
There's an pool again with corn you see click and start mining and slush ball flushable is very first
the world's first Bitcoin mining pool.
It's it's it's actually in Czech Republic Yeah and you know this is their ropes.
I just want to show you so that's all that is you.
It just goes to one of these Web sites.
The software and that's when they get started.
That's as simple as oh by the way this is told you are watching these guys from Czech Republic but their
AI I think has an Australian accent so if you have a chance to listen to this it's really fun.
But you know like I totally respect it just the accent.
I was surprised the Czech company but with an Australian accent and they I my room as they might be
like in a different accent but to me sounds Australian.
OK.
And then I wanted to show you some other stuff here.
So this is run by Bitcoin world wide dot com.
There's an interesting article here.
Percentage of concentric concentration of pools.
And you can see that China has 81 percent or at the time of the writing of this article which was July
of 2017 China was at 81 percent.
All of the hash power is in China then Iceland Japan Czech Republic Georgia India.
Why China.
Why.
And by the way.
So all these top ones and China BTC top China China China China China China China.
This one is Norway or Iceland.
Iceland.
Excuse me.
And then slash bought just about so why China that the answer is it's about the price of electricity.
So all things equal the price of electricity dictates where you're going to set up your mining rig or
where you're going to have more miners.
And in China a lot of electricity is subsidized in fact.
I've heard I've read somewhere that it's speculated that in some places the electricity was sort of
what they called the plans they redirect their excess electricity to Bitcoin miners just so that it
doesn't go to waste and like it's subsidized to some country like huge amounts and so on so energy which
is great in China is super cheap and that's why a lot of the mining operations are actually happening
in China.
In fact people sometimes go from overseas to China or to countries with lower electricity prices just
to set up their mining rigs there because electricity is the biggest cost for miners especially if you're
going you know like fool in Iceland.
I'm not sure I guess electricity prices are not are also subsidized.
I'm not sure about that can come into that but I know that about.
So yeah something interesting to know.
So if you're planning on building a huge mining operation always think about electricity.
Who are you going to be competing with.
And you're going to be competing with where it's very cheap.
But again like I've heard also that the government in China is that is becoming such a big like a big
problem there that they're considering of banning or you know like putting some restrictions on how
mine is electricity.
So that's something Astakhov for that might come Politti change completely changes Jard if that happens
again and this next one is just interesting bitcoin mining now consumes more urgency than 159 countries
together.
Individual countries so this is a word and a bit weird.
So for example all of these countries the orange ones they use less electricity per year than Bitcoin
miners use per year.
So basically what an interesting example is that Bitcoin miners use more electricity than Ireland uses.
Who would have thought thought that was was not that warm water which is which is there but anyway so
these are the countries and Bitcoin miners will be hundred and here the miners would be like 159.
So the hour runs from here.
So basically I think they would be somewhere here what place that would be but there would be 64 miners
or a country they would rank 6:02 first in terms of world electricity consumption.
That's pretty crazy if you think about it that way.
So yeah.
So Bitcoin uses up a lot a lot of electricity for the what they're doing so here you can see the countries
where Bitcoin actually uses more than the orange ones.
Bitcoin miners use electricity in these countries.
So it's a huge statistic of course.
And this brings us to the end of the Tauriel.
But what I wanted to share with you at the end is some additional reading and additional reading is
this article called bitcoin mining and energy consumption.
It's by Leo WIESS.
We say we so I guess our medium.
So again the link will be in the show not in the show but it will be in the tutorial in of course not
so why I wanted to share this article is because it give you some good arguments because this is a common
topic for debate where people say Bitcoin because it uses a lot of electricity you know Bitcoin is evil
and things like that.
And you know as we saw yes it was just in some countries here he gives examples of how you can make
it like Indra when you put things relative to each other.
Some things might seem large or things might seem small.
It's all relative comparison so when you put it here you give some arguments where you can make it seem
big like we just did now and then he also gives us some arguments where you can make it seem small.
For example Bitcoin uses less electricity than 17 NSA data centers combined.
I thought it was an asset s.a.a or you know Bitcoin only uses 20 percent or energy of a single coal
power plant in Taiwan.
So when you put it like that it sounds very small.
So I thought it was an interesting comparison and you know puts you like whether you want to be an opponent
or a proponent give you some some facts to deal with some way to prosper.
All right.
So there are additional reading.
Hope you enjoyed today's Totoro and I look forward to seeing you next then.
Until then enjoy elections.